[MUSIC PLAYING]
[MIXED CHATTER]
>> Hey guys.
We're here today in
Oakland, California,
meeting with what might seem
an unlikely group of marijuana
users, senior citizens.
Senior citizens are the fastest
growing and largest demographic
in the field of cannabis,
for so many reasons.
Today we're going to meet
with medical practitioners,
educators, outreach,
and pioneers
who are helping bring these
medicines to the senior citizen
community.
We are at what might be
the coolest party ever,
the East Bay Senior
Cannabis Social Club.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hey, hey, hi!
>> Come on in.
>> Yeah, yeah!
>> The East Bay Senior Cannabis
Social Club started in March
2017 as a monthly meet up
for seniors to talk shop,
share weed ingestion tips and
experiences, smoke some pot,
and have a good time.
[CHATTER]
>> Chocolate cake is medicating!
It's not daytime use.
>> Right now you're having
a combination of herbs.
Like, this is a blueberry
muffin, and probably some kush.
And then some other stuff.
>> That's really indica.
>> OK.
>> Exactly.
>> This is representative of
a larger growing mental shift
among folks in their age group,
who would like to be less
reliant on prescription
medicines and more connected
to a natural way of life.
>> One day when I
was still smoking,
I was driving across the bridge
and all of a sudden I realized
I was relaxed.
And that's when I shifted
from getting high to getting
medicated, personally.
My whole mindset changed on it.
And I became much more aware of
what the medical benefit of it
could be.
And then I started
meeting people
who were much more engaged
in the medical world,
and the advocacy world.
And that's when I just said
this is where I need to be.
>> So I haven't been practicing
for a long time nursing,
until I saw this photo in my
local newspaper of a nurse
teaching senior citizens at
a retirement community about
cannabis.
And I went, Oh my gosh, this
is really legitimizing it.
And I was just so curious.
And then I started going
to conferences, meetings,
these kinds of groups, to
learn as much as I can.
>> Plant-based medicines,
non-toxic plant-based medicines
are alive and well.
And it's just us creating
more awareness and education
around them so it feels
safer to use them.
So we have a
mission ahead of us.
But I think it's a worthy one.
>> So my name is Barbara Blaser,
and I'm an RN with 50 years
experience in the RN field.
I actually retired
a couple of years
ago after being the
director of a hospice.
And while I was at
the hospice I saw
lots of patients who really
appeared to be suffering
with end-of-life things.
And I would see them on Friday
and they'd be devastated.
And I'd see them on Monday
and they would be more upbeat.
And they would have been visited
by a grandson with brownies.
And I began studying
what the efficacy was
in treating seniors.
And I got offered
the opportunity
to become a patient advocate
at Magnolia Wellness
here in Oakland.
>> About five, six years ago,
I took three antidepressants
a day and washed it down with
a bottle of wine every night.
And then took sleeping
pills on top of that.
And weighed about 200 pounds
more than I do right now.
And slowly I weaned myself off.
I started doing edibles.
I'm an edibles girl.
And I'm happy to say today
I don't take anything.
No antidepressants,
no pharmaceuticals.
only marijuana.
>> Wow.
>> So just to clarify,
you actually retired from
the hospice, took time off,
and then went on to go back
into the field because--
>> Well, I actually got
critically, seriously ill.
And had some major
surgery and it went bad.
The doctor, who I dearly
love, poked a hole
in my intestinal tract.
I ended up with septicaemia,
in a coma for weeks,
lost all my hair, had
to re-learn to walk.
And in that six months I
spent a lot of time reading
about medical marijuana.
I came to believe that cannabis
offered the opportunity to age
at home successfully,
get back into the garden,
and see my grandkids,
and enjoy life more.
And for the seniors that
we see, 40% of our patients
are seniors, that's
what they want to do.
>> Something that I feel really
impassioned about is bringing
seniors into the
cannabis community.
Allowing them to speak
to practitioners,
creating education for them
so that the stigma can get
demystified in a way that
is comfortable for them.
>> The thing is, most of these
guys grew up during the "Reefer
Madness" era and
the war on drugs.
So it's taken a lot of
outreach and education
to dispel the false myth
that kept the medicine
illegal for so long.
>> The stigma against medical
marijuana still exists,
thank you Nancy Reagan.
But in seniors in particular--
I'm 71.
I grew up believing
Nancy Reagan.
Oh my god, Nancy
wouldn't lie to me.
But she did.
She lied to me.
>> I do still see quite
a bit of resistance.
You know, because 90% of them
have never used it before.
A lot of them come
to me desperate.
Sort of, they've
tried everything else.
Nothing else has worked.
And so they're very sort
of disgusted in some cases
that they've resorted
to marijuana.
>> People from our generation,
we're so used to hiding
our cannabis, you know, and
our cannabis use in the closet.
And so this is a nice way to
bring people out of the closet,
cannabis-wise, into a
social environment where
we can sit around and smoke
together, laugh together,
eat together.
And nobody's worried about
what the person next to them
might think about that.
>> Seniors benefit so much
from cannabis as they age.
For sleep, for pain,
for mood elevation,
for community, for bonding.
I mean, cannabis is an
incredible bonding plant.
>> What we found is that a
lot of folks started coming
to the East Bay Senior
Cannabis Social Club looking
for a healthy change
in their lives.
What they got was a lot more.
They found a community of
like-minded individuals
to share their experiences with.
And for some, a real sense of
community, and even family.
>> Hi.
We're smoking a joint together.
We're swapping spit.
We're family.
[LAUGHTER]
I'm Sorry.
>> It's truly a
miraculous plant.
And there are no side
effects, except you
might have a really good time.
And you might eat a little
more than you should.
>> I feel like it's in crumbles,
and the host is awesome.
[CHATTER]
[MUSIC PLAYING]